Imagine for a moment
that you’re planning a road trip.
You have everything you need:
a map, a car, and plenty of fuel.
Before you start the engine, though,
you need to know your destination
—wouldn’t you agree?
If you don’t know where you are trying to go,
you won’t know which road to take.
The same is true of our ministry,
which is, in a sense, like that road trip.
As Acts 13:48 shows, we’re always searching
for “those who [are] rightly disposed
for everlasting life.”
We have everything we need for the journey,
including all the tools
in our Teaching Toolbox.
But what would you say is our destination?
What’s the most important goal
that we are trying
to accomplish in our ministry?
Is it placing literature?
directing people to jw.org®?
making return visits?
starting Bible studies?
educating people about the Bible?
or making disciples
of Christ Jesus and baptizing them?
Each of those goals has value.
But which one is our primary goal?
What’s the destination that we want to reach?
Jesus identified it
at Matthew 28:19, 20.
There he said:
“Go, therefore, and make disciples
“of people of all the nations,
baptizing them in the name
“of the Father and
of the Son and of the holy spirit,
“teaching them to observe all the things
I have commanded you.”
Our destination, then,
is a baptized disciple.
Each person we meet,
each piece of literature that we place,
each time we direct attention to the website,
each return visit we make,
each Bible study we conduct
—we should have the final goal
of making a baptized disciple.
Why is baptism essential?
Put simply, it’s because baptism
is necessary for salvation.
That’s what the Bible tells us
at 1 Peter 3:21:
“Baptism . . . is also now saving you
“(not by the removing
of the filth of the flesh,
“but by the request to God
for a good conscience),
through the resurrection of Jesus Christ.”
So from the time
we meet an interested person,
we want to have our eyes on that goal
of making a baptized disciple.
In fact, the November 1977 Kingdom Ministry
made this statement
regarding those we study with:
“Our discussions should reflect
“a genuine personal  interest in the student
“as a potential disciple and therefore
a potential brother or sister in the faith.”
If we don’t have that end-point
of a baptized disciple fixed firmly in mind,
we could end up stuck on side roads.
For example, watch this video,
and see if you can identify
the problem that our brother has.
Are you going out
in field service after lunch?
Yes, I’m going to be there, but I’ve got
one return visit that I’ve got to make.
All right, see you.
See you.
My neighbor lost his job after 20 years,
and as a result,
he’s got to move out of his house,
got to move into an apartment.
So I decided to go help him out a little bit
to pack up to make it a little easier
for him to make that move.
You know,
won’t it be nice at a time period
where we don’t have to worry
about economic troubles like that?
Yeah, it will.
Uhm, you know,
that’s why I’m so happy
that my grandchildren
chose to go for higher education.
They both landed good jobs.
You know that bridge
you cross when you come here.
You’ve noticed that they’re starting
to do some work on it.
And that’s pretty extensive work.
They’re going to replace that whole bridge.
So according to the newspaper article,
it’s going to be
like a six to eight month project.
Wow!
That is a long time.
Uhm, you know, Chris,
the reason why I came by
is I wanted to show you this magazine.
I love these.
These are so well written.
Isaiah 48:17 is a key scripture here.
Notice what it says:
“I, Jehovah, am your God,
the One teaching you to benefit yourself.”
That’s familiar.
I think your dad
read that to me once or twice.
How’s your dad doing anyway?
Doing good.
Ah, you know,
they said they’ve got more Bible studies
than they can even cover in one week.
Well, well, you know, I can remember
when you and your dad came here.
You were a little kid about this high,
and you just stayed right by his side.
And your dad was so proud.
You know, Chris,
I know my dad had offered
to study the Bible with you in the past.
John, to be honest,
I’m too old to change;
I’m set in my ways now.
I think that God is just going
to have to take me the way I am.
More chocolate?
Uhm, yeah.
I don’t mind.
Could you identify
with the brother in that video?
Have you ever had a return visit with someone
who just loves your company?
Perhaps you’ve been leaving literature
with that person for months
—even years—
and yet the person
has no genuine interest in progressing.
Why is that a problem?
Apparently, the person isn’t interested
in becoming a disciple of Christ Jesus.
Our time would be better spent
searching for other people
who are “rightly disposed
for everlasting life.”
Of course, that doesn’t mean
that there’s no value
in placing literature
or leaving contact cards
that direct people to jw.org.
These provisions are part
of our Teaching Toolbox for a reason.
They can play a vital role
in reaching the hearts
of those who are “rightly disposed.”
So continue to make good use of these tools
that Jehovah’s organization provides.
At the same time,
never lose sight of your goal
to start Bible studies with interested ones
—and then the ultimate goal:
to “make disciples . . . , baptizing them.”
What about a person
you’ve been studying with for years,
but the person isn’t making changes,
hasn’t stopped going to church,
and shows no real interest
in attending Christian meetings?
Some people are glad
to study the Bible with us
simply for the fact
that they value Bible education.
And we love to teach people about the Bible.
But we have to remember
that providing Bible education
for its own sake is not our primary goal.
In fact, it could be a side road.
The fact is,
some people who value Bible education
are not interested in becoming
baptized disciples of Jesus.
The world is full of Bible scholars
who are highly educated in the Bible
but who do not become
disciples of Christ Jesus.
For example, one Bible scholar was educated
at a Bible institute, a religious college,
and a theological seminary.
He holds a doctorate in religious studies.
He has a thorough knowledge
of Biblical Greek,
and he’s written 30 books about the Bible.
Yet, he describes himself
as an “agnostic atheist.”
So just providing Bible education
is not our primary goal.
We want people to build faith in God
and to have
their own relationship with Jehovah
that will move them toward the destination
of dedication and baptism.
That’s why it’s important to honestly analyze
the progress of our Bible students.
Are they simply taking in knowledge?
Do they prepare in advance for the study?
Do they answer
in their own words and from their heart?
Are they making changes in their life
to conform to what they’ve learned?
Are they attending
and benefiting from Christian meetings?
If not, we may need to follow the advice
of the Kingdom Ministry
of October 1988, which stated:
“If a student is not making
meaningful progress
“after you have patiently aided him
“over a reasonable period of time,
“it may be best to use the time
“to better advantage
searching for deserving ones.
“Depending on the circumstances,
it may be wise to discontinue the study.”
But why is it so important to be selective
about who we spend our time with?
Isn’t conducting an unproductive study
better than knocking on doors
where no one is home
or where no one shows interest?
To answer that, let’s read Jesus’ words
at Matthew 10:11-13.
Now, when instructing his disciples
about how to conduct
their ministry, Jesus said:
“Into whatever city or village you enter,
“search out who in it is deserving,
“and stay there until you leave.
“When you enter the house,
greet the household.
“If the house is deserving,
“let the peace you wish it come upon it;
“but if it is not deserving,
let the peace from you return upon you.”
In harmony with those verses,
we want to focus our attention
on deserving ones
as Jesus instructed,
people who are
“rightly disposed for everlasting life.”
Obviously, there is a balance.
We need to be patient
with those we call on and study with,
and not everyone progresses at the same rate.
But as we call on people and study with them,
we should never lose sight of our goal
—our destination—
to “make disciples . . . , baptizing them.”
If we have that goal clearly in mind,
we’ll know when we are moving toward it,
and we’ll know
when we are getting sidetracked.
We could illustrate it like this:
Think of a plane on a runway.
That plane is like a person you’ve visited
and you believe shows
sincere interest in the Bible’s message.
Your short-term goal at this point
is to get them off the runway
and into a Bible study.
If you do, that means
the plane has taken off.
But once your study is airborne,
you have to keep
your sights on your destination.
You can’t just stay in the air indefinitely.
Your goal is to make a baptized disciple.
If, in a reasonable amount of time,
the student isn’t progressing,
what will you do?
To keep the study going
would be like flying in circles.
In the same way, a Bible study
that’s simply suspended
in the air goes nowhere.
We have to land the plane
—either at the destination
of a baptized disciple
or at the termination of the study.
But what if something is holding
your Bible student back
from the destination of baptism
—maybe an attachment to holiday celebrations
or an unclean habit, like smoking?
Notice how this issue arises
in the following brief video.
When I started studying the Bible,
there were various factors
that hindered my study.
I was a truck driver,
and I was on the road a lot.
I had the worst kind
of friendships,
and I smoked.
I smoked, on average, 60 cigarettes a day.
I realized that if I
was going to make the needed adjustments,
I had to change my profession.
So I changed my job.
But if I wanted to get baptized,
I had to stop smoking.
I cut down to two or three cigarettes a day.
One day, I bought a single cigarette.
I lit it, and I prayed to Jehovah.
I begged him to help me,
and he did help me
—so much so that I never smoked again.
And to this day,
I don’t even have the urge to smoke.
Ten years after my first Bible study,
I was baptized.
I’ve been serving Jehovah for 20 years now,
along with my wife and all my children.
Did you notice this man
had to pray to Jehovah
to get the help he needed
to overcome smoking?
In other words, he had to cultivate
his own relationship with Jehovah
in order to build the faith
he needed to stop smoking.
In the same way, we need to help our students
to build their own relationship with Jehovah
so that they’ll also overcome any obstacles
that might hold them back
from progressing to baptism.
But what if you’re not
presently conducting a Bible study?
What if you’ve never had the privilege
of having one
of your Bible students get baptized?
Does that mean your service
to Jehovah is not valuable?
Not at all.
Remember, we each
do our part in the ministry.
Do you remember what the apostle Paul said
at 1 Corinthians 3:6, 7:
“I planted, Apollos watered,
“but God kept making it grow,
“so that neither is
the one who plants anything
“nor is the one who waters,
but God who makes it grow.”
So never feel
that your efforts are unimportant.
Just as Paul said,
what’s accomplished
in the ministry is a group effort.
When a person reaches baptism,
it isn’t just because of the effort
of the person who conducted the study.
The efforts of others played a role.
Perhaps someone else
initiated that person’s interest
by placing literature
or in some other way
giving a witness.
But remember what Paul said.
Jehovah is the one “who makes it grow.”
He is the one that is drawing to himself
those who are “rightly disposed
for everlasting life.”
What a privilege we have
to be fellow workers with Jehovah
as we help people
become disciples of Christ Jesus!
If we keep that goal clearly in mind,
how will it help us?
We won’t be content just to place literature
or just to direct interest to jw.org.
We won’t be satisfied
just making return visits
or starting Bible studies.
We’ll always have in mind
our primary destination
—making disciples of Christ
and baptizing them.
We of the Governing Body
wish you Jehovah’s rich blessing
as you work shoulder to shoulder with us
in helping “rightly disposed” ones
become baptized disciples of Jesus.